basic-code/combinational-logic/and2/README.md, before:

# AND2 EXAMPLE

_2-input AND gate used in my
[programable-8-bit-microprocessor](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/systems/microprocessors/programable-8-bit-microprocessor)._

* [TRUTH TABLE](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#truth-table)
* [VERILOG CODE](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#verilog-code)
* [RUN (SIMULATE)](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#run-simulate)
* [CHECK WAVEFORM](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#check-waveform)
* [TESTED IN HARDWARE - BURNED TO A FPGA](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#tested-in-hardware---burned-to-a-fpga)

## TRUTH TABLE

| a     | b     | y     |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
| 0     | 0     | 0     |
| 0     | 1     | 0     |
| 1     | 0     | 0     |
| 1     | 1     | 1     |

## VERILOG CODE

The main part of the code is,

```verilog
    assign y = a & b;
```

The entire code is
[and2.v](and2.v).

## RUN (SIMULATE)

I used my testbench
[and2-tb.v](and2-tb.v) with
[iverilog](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/simulation/iverilog-cheat-sheet)
to simulate and create a `.vcd` file.

```bash
sh run-test.sh
```

## CHECK WAVEFORM

Check you waveform using your `.vcd` file with a waveform viewer.

I used [GTKWave](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/simulation/gtkwave-cheat-sheet)
and launch it using
[launch-gtkwave.sh](launch-gtkwave.sh).

![and2-waveform.jpg](../../../docs/pics/and2-waveform.jpg)

## TESTED IN HARDWARE - BURNED TO A FPGA

To test my design in real hardware, the above code was synthesized using the
[Xilinx Vivado](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/synthesis/xilinx-vivado-cheat-sheet)
IDE software suite and burned to a FPGA development board.

Commit message:

udpated and2 with new README verbiage

basic-code/combinational-logic/and2/README.md, after:

# AND2 EXAMPLE

_2-input AND gate used in my
[programable-8-bit-microprocessor](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/systems/microprocessors/programable-8-bit-microprocessor)._

* [TRUTH TABLE](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#truth-table)
* [VERILOG CODE](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#verilog-code)
* [RUN (SIMULATE)](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#run-simulate)
* [CHECK WAVEFORM](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#check-waveform)
* [TESTED IN HARDWARE - BURNED TO A FPGA](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/tree/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2#tested-in-hardware---burned-to-a-fpga)

## TRUTH TABLE

| a     | b     | y     |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
| 0     | 0     | 0     |
| 0     | 1     | 0     |
| 1     | 0     | 0     |
| 1     | 1     | 1     |

## VERILOG CODE

The
[and2.v](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/blob/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2/and2.v)
main code is,

```verilog
    assign y = a & b;
```

## RUN (SIMULATE)

I created a testbench
[and2-tb.v](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/blob/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2/and2-tb.v)
and header file
[and2.vh](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/blob/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2/and2.vh).

To [run-test.sh](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/blob/master/basic-code/combinational-logic/and2/run-test.sh),

```bash
iverilog -o and2.vvp and2-tb.v and2.vh
./and2.vvp
```

## CHECK WAVEFORM

First launch
[GTKWave](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/simulation/gtkwave-cheat-sheet)
using your value change dump (.vcd) file,

```bash
gtkwave -f and2.vcd &
```

Configure and save your waveform to a .gtkw file.

Now
[launch-gtkwave.sh](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-verilog-examples/blob/master/launch-GTKWave-script/launch-gtkwave.sh),

```bash
gtkwave -f and2.gtkw &
```

![and2-waveform.jpg](../../../docs/pics/and2-waveform.jpg)

## TESTED IN HARDWARE - BURNED TO A FPGA

To test my design in real hardware, the above code was synthesized using the
[Xilinx Vivado](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/synthesis/xilinx-vivado-cheat-sheet)
IDE software suite and burned to a FPGA development board.
