docs/_includes/README.md, before:


# PYTHON EXAMPLES

* [read-file](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-python-examples/tree/master/read-file)

  _Reading a file a few different ways._

## TESTED USING CONCOURSE

A Concourse Pipeline will automate unit testing and update the GitHub WebPage.

![IMAGE - my-python-examples concourse ci piepline - IMAGE](pics/my-python-examples-pipeline.jpg)

A _ci/.credentials.yml_ file needs to be created for your _slack_url_ and _repo_github_token_.

Use fly to upload the the pipeline file _ci/pipline.yml_ to Concourse:

```bash
fly -t ci set-pipeline -p my-python-examples -c ci/pipeline.yml --load-vars-from ci/.credentials.yml
```

## CONCOURSE RESOURCES IN PIPELINE

`my-python-examples` also contains a few extra concourse resources:

* A resource (_resource-slack-alert_) uses a [docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/cfcommunity/slack-notification-resource)
  that will notify slack on your progress.
* A resource (_resource-repo-status_) use a [docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/dpb587/github-status-resource)
  that will update your git status for that particular commit.

The above resources can be removed from the pipeline.

Commit message:

cp README.md docs/_includes/README.md for GitHub Page

docs/_includes/README.md, after:


# SYSTEMVERILOG EXAMPLES

_All sections in alphabetical order._

* [basic-example](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-systemverilog-examples/tree/master/basic-example)

   _To get you up and running._

## MY GITHUB WEBPAGE IS UPDATED USING CONCOURSE

For fun, I use concourse to update
[my-systemverilog-examples GitHub Webpage](https://jeffdecola.github.io/my-systemverilog-examples/)
and alert me of the changes via repo status and slack.

The github webpage update is accomplished this by copying and editing
this `README.md` file to `/docs/_includes/README.md`.
You can see the concourse task (a shell script)
[here](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-systemverilog-examples/tree/master/ci/scripts/readme-github-pages.sh).

A pipeline file [pipeline.yml](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-systemverilog-examples/tree/master/ci/pipeline.yml)
shows the entire ci flow. Visually, it looks like,

![IMAGE - my-systemverilog-examples concourse ci pipeline - IMAGE](pics/my-systemverilog-examples-pipeline.jpg)

For more information on using concourse for continuous integration,
refer to my cheat sheet on [concourse](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/software/operations-tools/continuous-integration-continuous-deployment/concourse-cheat-sheet).
