basic-synchronous-logic/priority-arbiter/README.md, before:

# priority-arbiter example

_Allowing one device access to a shared resource (Taking in N device
requests, granting access to only one)._

[GitHub Webpage](https://jeffdecola.github.io/my-systemverilog-examples/)

## SCHEMATIC

_This figure was created using `LaTeX` in
[my-latex-graphs](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-latex-graphs/tree/master/mathematics/applied/electrical-engineering/logic/priority-arbiter)
repo._

<p align="center">
    <img src="svgs/priority-arbiter.svg"
    align="middle"
</p>

## TRUTH TABLE

Note how `req_0` gets priority, hence the name.

| req_2 | req_1 | req_0 | gnt_2 | gnt_1 | gnt_0 |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|   0   |   0   |   0   |   0   |   0   |   0   |
|   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |
|   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |
|   0   |   1   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |
|   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |
|   1   |   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |
|   1   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |
|   1   |   1   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |

## VERILOG CODE

The main part of the code is,

```verilog
always @ (posedge clk or posedge rst)
begin
    if (rst) begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end else if (req_0) begin
        gnt_0 <= 1;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end else if (req_1) begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 1;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end else if (req_2) begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 1;
    end else begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end
end
```

The entire code is
[priority-arbiter.v](priority-arbiter.v).

## RUN (SIMULATE)

I used my testbench
[priority-arbiter-tb.v](priority-arbiter-tb.v) with
[iverilog](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/simulation/iverilog-cheat-sheet)
to simulate and create a `.vcd` file.

```bash
sh run-test.sh
```

## CHECK WAVEFORM

Check you waveform using your `.vcd` file with a waveform viewer like
[GTKWave](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/simulation/gtkwave-cheat-sheet).

Commit message:

added gtkwave launch script based on machine

basic-synchronous-logic/priority-arbiter/README.md, after:

# priority-arbiter example

_Allowing one device access to a shared resource (Taking in N device
requests, granting access to only one)._

[GitHub Webpage](https://jeffdecola.github.io/my-systemverilog-examples/)

## SCHEMATIC

_This figure was created using `LaTeX` in
[my-latex-graphs](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-latex-graphs/tree/master/mathematics/applied/electrical-engineering/logic/priority-arbiter)
repo._

<p align="center">
    <img src="svgs/priority-arbiter.svg"
    align="middle"
</p>

## TRUTH TABLE

Note how `req_0` gets priority, hence the name.

| req_2 | req_1 | req_0 | gnt_2 | gnt_1 | gnt_0 |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|   0   |   0   |   0   |   0   |   0   |   0   |
|   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |
|   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |
|   0   |   1   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |
|   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |
|   1   |   0   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |
|   1   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |   0   |
|   1   |   1   |   1   |   0   |   0   |   1   |

## VERILOG CODE

The main part of the code is,

```verilog
always @ (posedge clk or posedge rst)
begin
    if (rst) begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end else if (req_0) begin
        gnt_0 <= 1;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end else if (req_1) begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 1;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end else if (req_2) begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 1;
    end else begin
        gnt_0 <= 0;
        gnt_1 <= 0;
        gnt_2 <= 0;
    end
end
```

The entire code is
[priority-arbiter.v](priority-arbiter.v).

## RUN (SIMULATE)

I used my testbench
[priority-arbiter-tb.v](priority-arbiter-tb.v) with
[iverilog](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/simulation/iverilog-cheat-sheet)
to simulate and create a `.vcd` file.

```bash
sh run-test.sh
```

## CHECK WAVEFORM

Check you waveform using your `.vcd` file with a waveform viewer.

I used [GTKWave](https://github.com/JeffDeCola/my-cheat-sheets/tree/master/hardware/tools/simulation/gtkwave-cheat-sheet)
and launch it using
[launch-gtkwave.sh](launch-gtkwave.sh).
